# CS 252: Project 1

## Introduction

In this home-assignment you’ll create several transactions and post them to the
Bitcoin blockchain. We will provide starter code for this using bitcoinj, a
free and popular Java library for interacting with Bitcoin.  You will need to
submit your code via canvas. 

Getting started

1.  Download the starter code from canvas  and  import it into your favorite
    IDE (Eclipse/ Netbeans) . You can use maven to download the required
    dependencies. Learn about maven at https://maven.apache.org/

2.  Familiarize yourself with Bitcoin’s  scripting system.

3.  Understand the      bitcoinj	API    and    the    starter    code.
    You    should understand    the ScriptTransaction  class and the example
    in PayToPubKey .

4.  Implement Java code for the exercises below, using the Bitcoin test
    network (“testnet”) to test your code. You can obtain testnet coins for
    free from http://tpfaucet.appspot.com/.  It is courteous to send the
    testnet coins back to the faucet after you are done experimenting with
    them.

5.  You must implement the transactions by specifying the Scripts in the
    specific subclasses. You will not receive credit if you create the
    transactions using a different tool. We will test your implementation.

6.  You can use the transaction hashes to track your transactions on a block
    explorer tool such as https://test-insight.bitpay.com/  (testnet) or
    https://insight.bitpay.com/ (mainnet).

7.  Important   The transactions for all the exercises may be done on the
    testnet (you can also do them on mainnet if you want, but you will need to
    submit them directly to a mining pool which allows non-standard
    transactions).


## Submitting your code

For all exercises, submit the source code as well as the transaction hashes.
Your transaction hashes should be in a file called “README” and listed one per
line in the same order as the exercises. Please create a single .tar or .zip
file that includes all your deliverables for all three exercises and email it
to the address at the top of this page. The title of your email should be
“Project 1 Submission”.


## Exercises

1.  Generate an address whose standard Base58Check representation starts with
    1 and then at least the first four letters of your surname in lowercase.
    If your surname is shorter than four letters, please append as many ‘X’
    characters as necessary. If it contains an ‘l’ please use ‘L’ instead as
    the ‘l’ is dropped in Base58Check to avoid confusion with ‘1’. You may
    generate this address either using bitcoinj or using an external
    generator.  

2.  Generate a transaction that can be redeemed by the solution (x,y) to the
    following system of two linear equations: x+y = (first half of your iitk
    roll) 	and 	x-y = (second half or your iitk roll) [to ensure that an
    integer solution exists, please change the last digit of the two numbers
    on the right hand side so the numbers are both even or both odd] Create
    and redeem the transaction. The redemption script should be as small as
    possible. That is, a valid script sig should consist of simply pushing two
    integers x and y to the stack.  Make sure you use OP_ADD and OP_SUB in
    your script.

3.  Generate  a  multi-sig  transaction  involving  four  parties  such  that
    the  transaction  can be redeemed by the first party (bank) combined with
    any one of the 3 others (customers) but not by only the customers or only
    the bank. Create and redeem the transaction and make sure that the script
    is as small  as possible.  You can use any legal combination of signatures
    to redeem the transaction but make sure that all combinations would have
    worked.

## Notes

1.  The   starter   code   has   the   tests   in   ScriptTests.java
    commented   out.   Once   you  have implemented a transaction type,
    uncomment the corresponding test and run it.

2.  When running the tests, be careful that you set useMainNet to the
    appropriate value depending on whether you want to put your transaction on
    mainnet or testnet.

3.  There may be times when your code will hit an error but the process will
    not terminate. This will prevent you from re-running your code because the
    old process will have a lock on your wallet.  To  fix  this  you  need  to
    manually  kill  the  process.  On  most  UNIX  platforms,  the following
    command should kill all of your java processes that contain the string
    “Project1” in 
     
    ps     -xo     'pid,command'     |  grep
    E   '^[0-9]+    [^    ]*/java .*\bProject1\b' | cut -d ' ' -f 1  | xargs
    kill  -9
     
4.  It sometimes happens that the transactions generated by the unit tests
    don’t make it out onto the Bitcoin testnet.  After running a test, look up
    the transaction hash in a blockchain explorer to verify whether the
    transaction was picked up by the network. If it was, you should see it on
    a sight like insight.bitpay.com  within a few minutes. If you think your
    transaction didn’t make it onto the network, you can post the transaction
    data manually using the “broadcast transaction” feature at the bottom of
    the page. Make sure that all your transactions have been posted
    successfully before submitting their hashes.
